# Summary

This completes your introduction to Metrics, Monitoring, Alarms and Notifications on out of the box metrics emitted by most OCI resources as all as on custom metrics that may represent functional behavior of application components.

You have inspected the metrics that are produced when files are uploaded or downloaded, created an alarm to trap specific conditions (large number of file downloads) and associated the alarm with a notification topic to which  your mail email address is subscribed. You then caused the alarm to be triggered and received at least one email as a result. Subsequently you produced custom metrics (regarding product orders), inspected those in the metrics explorer and created a second alarm that is triggered by special product order circumstances (over one hundred products ordered in five minutes). Again, after creating the business condition that this alarm was created to find, an email was sent to inform you of that condition. Notifications can also trigger PagerDuty and Slack, as well as a webhook and (in the near future) Functions - for automated reactions to the situation.

You should now have an understanding of how metrics represent activity in Oracle Cloud Infrastructure and how these metrics can be inspected - in the console, through the CLI and through alarms that perform continuous evaluations on special, usually undesired situations. Metrics are available on what is happening, on how things are happening and on the status of resources in general over time.

Using metrics, monitoring tools, alarms and notifications you can set up a consistent, far reaching, highly automated monitoring process that helps you to assure performance, availability and in general proper functioning of your cloud resources.